.TH DBPARAMS 1-ucb
.SH ORIGIN
4.2BSD
.SH NAME
dbparams \- generate ``optimal'' parameters for a
.I simc
relation
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dbparams
[\|-\|v\|] Av Arity Nrecs SegSize Nd
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I dbparams
generates a complete set of near-optimal parameters for
a
.I simc
style database.
The complete set of parameters is quite complex so
.I dbparam
only requires you to specify a small number of them.
It is intended to be used in conjunction with
.I newrel
to generate new relations.
A typical usage might be as follows:
.TP
	\fBnewrel\fP db rel type `\|dbparams args .\|.\|.\|` skel
.PP
The parameters which
.I dbparams
requires are as follows:
.TP 4
.B Av
Average length of records. Records are stored simply as C-like text
strings within the segments, with the relation name stripped off.
Thus the record
.br
	``employee(e1234,fred,analyst,edp,30000)''
.br
will be stored in the data file as
.br
	``e1234,fred,analyst,edp,30000''.
.br
Note that this does not form a fixed upper bound;
it is possible to exceed average length
at a cost in retrieval performance.
.TP 4
.B Arity
The number of keys in each record (or, viewed another way, the number
of arguments to the Prolog predicate which the relation represents).
.TP 4
.B Nrecs
Maximum records in relation.
This is equal to the product of
.B Ns
*
.BR Nr .
If this is exceeded, then massive re-organisation of the database is
necessary. At present, this is not implemented, so relations have a fixed
maximum size.
.TP 4
.B SegSize
The size (in bytes) of segment buffers. This allows the records to
be optimally partitioned between segments. For a typical 4.2BSD Unix
system this would be 4096; for other systems, use some optimal disk
transfer block size.
.TP 4
.B Nd
The number of data files to use to store the segments of the relation.
Initially, for locking, the system aimed to have one file per segment,
but since large databases require more than 1000 segments this is not
feasible.
There is a trade-off here between speed and locking; sixteen files is
sufficient for around 1000 segments.
.SH FILES
db/rel/desc	Index files
.br
db/rel/00*	Data files
.SH SEE ALSO
dbinfo(1), ddb(1), consult(1), newrel(1), prefix(1)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Silent bastardry.
.SH BUGS
This program is too simple to have bugs. And, besides, Rao wrote it.
